---
published: false
---

Let's create a Rock-paper-scissor game!

That is probably not what you expected the first line for an introduction to programming article to be like. Yet, in a way I feel like there is no better way I can explain programming.

One of the most devastating problems I faced when I tried teaching programming is this: teaching programming!

Everytime I try it, I fail. No matter what the methodology is. I looked at examples here and there, but no inspirations came.

One of the best things about rock-paper-scissor is that I actually program variations of rock-paper-scissor when I am bored. Well, not whenever I am bored, but sometimes I utilize my boredom-filled time in something like that; and when I do, I feel a certain type of enjoynment, which was what have inspired me to start writing this.

But, will just a rock-paper-scissor game be enough for an introduction to programming tutorial?

## The Rock-Paper-Scissor Expansion Model

One of the best thing about the rock-paper-scissor game is its applicability in any type of games or simulations. In its simplest example, the game can be simply about our good ol' rock-paper-scissor; two guys waving their hands, and based on the outcome, one or the other will win.

In a more advanced model, it can be incorporated in a best-of-3, best-of-5, tournaments, etc. A more detailed version will create a power system for each symbol, which will increase when you use it frequently. A whole lot of possible games can be produced from this simple game.

And that is not all.

The best thing about these whole lots of possibilities is that they open up possibilities for programming concepts and techniques to explore.

For example, a simple game of rock-paper-scissor will involve a network application between two users, which will recieve their symbols of choice, will process them, and will output which one wins. This will involve simple I/O, sockets, and in case of computer players, random number generation. More advanced levels will open up more topics and concepts.

## What We Will Do

So what are we going to do here?

Here, we will implement simple rock-paper-scissor games, all of which are playable and, possibly, enjoyable. I am trying to make the tutorial a little dynamic with respect to programming languages; so most of the tutorials will be as programming language-independent as they will possibly ever be. When it comes to implementation details, several versions of these sections for each programming language will be written.

I will write the implementations sections in two programming languages; Python and Java - possibly -. If you happen to know any other language, and you want to write the implementations sections for this language, contact me.

## The Possible Road Map



Enter text in [Markdown](http://daringfireball.net/projects/markdown/). Use the toolbar above, or click the **?** button for formatting help.
